straight away to tomara arifi who's the
spokesperson for Ana who of course are
working there on the ground in Gaza
thank you so much for being here on the
program and the Secretary General
referencing the amount of your staff
that are being lost in this conflict and
those numbers continue to go up 35 now
in
total yes uh the Secretary General set
the bar I think for where we all stand
as humanitarians with a very very urgent
call for a humanitarian ceasefire and
for the application of international
humanitarian law that is particularly
relevant to my colleagues at unra the
fact that unra the largest UN agency in
Gaza has already lost 35 Staff members
women and men doctors Engineers nurses
you name it it
is devastating it is shocking and it is
appalling so we stand behind the UN
secretary General's call for a respect
for all civilians those who have nothing
to do with this conflict including Aid
workers including my own colleagues at
Ana now your agency spoke to the BBC
only a couple of hours ago issued a
warning today about how much longer you
can keep going what are you saying be
very clear about what that warning is
the warning is if we do not get more
fuel into Gaza we as unra the largest
Aid agency in Gaza will not be able to
carry out any humanitarian operations
and that is because we need the fuels
for our trucks that uh that whole
conversation about convoys coming in
from Rafa we need fuel so so that our
trucks can pick up that Aid we need fuel
for our water desalination PL so that
people can have access to clean water
hospitals need fuel for life-saving
machines without which people can die so
fuel is a top urgency my colleagues in
Gaza have confirmed that we have enough
fuel for about two to three days after
that we will not be able to work neither
will the bakeries that need fuel
electricity neither will the water
salination plant or the life-saving
machines and hospitals just just be very
clear because one of your colleagues
said you had enough fuel to last till
tomorrow night is that what you're
saying and also just tell me the
consequences if you get no more fuel the
consequences if you have to Halt
operations if we get no fuel we cannot
work and people can die people can die
because there will will no longer be
electricity in hospitals for life-saving
machines people will no longer have
access to bread that is almost the only
thing people are eating now and that is
because Ona and the world food program
have been Distributing wheat flour to
bakeries in those bakeries in order to
make bread we need electricity and water
for the wheat the water we get it
through a water desalination plant that
works through a generator that is
powered with the fuel so if we don't get
the fuel there's no water there is no
baking Bakery and there is no machines
in hospitals and there will be no trucks
to pick up the humanitarian supplies
from the borders let me put to you what
Israel their army spokesman has said
that Hamas is stockpiling fuel can you
understand the reasons why fuel is not
being allowed in to you and others that
that are being actually given and
articulated no I cannot understand it as
a representative of a humanitarian
agency we are not responsible for what a
party at war is doing we are responsible
for enabling our own humanitarian
operations and therefore it is not okay
to not allow the UN and the larger
humanitarian Community to have access to
something as basic as fuel for our cars
so so tell me what conditions are like
in the UN hospitals in the UN schools
which are being used as shelters and
which parts of the Gaza Strip are
currently where AID is needed the most
the North or the
South Aid is needed everywhere people
are displaced everywhere there was a
huge wave of displacement about a week
ago from the north of the strip to the
south of the strip so there is
overcrowding in unaa shelters in the
south of the strip up to 600,000 people
are now living in around 150 unest
schools for a bit of visuals these are
regular schools and all of a sudden two
three four thousand people live day and
night in these schools with very little
access to water living in very
unsanitary conditions a few hundred
people sharing one toilet very little
water for showering very little food so
the conditions are extremely dire the UN
Secret General said that they're they're
growing more dire by the hour over the
last week or 10 days your agency has
made multiple warnings exactly as you
are doing today in terms of people
listening what is your sense of it is
there frustration do you think that
anyone is actually listening to any of
these
warnings there's a lot of frustration
about having to negotiate for two weeks
for very small restricted convoys of
much needed humanitarian supplies to go
in we can choose to hail the
Breakthrough to celebrate the break the
Breakthrough and the entry of 20 trucks
on the first day three days ago to Gaza
and then 14 and then another 20 we can
also go back and say to the
International Community and those who
have influence and say before this
conflict up to 500 truck went into Gaza
every day loaded with supplies aund of
these trucks were humanitarian
assistance 45 of these trucks every day
were loaded with fuel I I've only got 30
seconds left so really briefly if you
could can you imagine what it is going
to be like on the ground if you have to
halt your operations and if there is a
ground offensive less than 30 seconds it
is going to be hell on
Earth well tomorrow thank you than you
so much for joining us here on BBC News
with that assessment and responding to
what we just heard from the UN Secretary
General as that meeting convenes in New
York